h1. Resumable File Uploads for HTML5

These are the skeleton files for providing resumable file uploads in Rails.
Works in
* Chrome 8+
* Safari 5+
* Firefox 7+
* IE 10+

For ajax upload fallback in older browsers use: https://github.com/JangoSteve/remotipart


h2. How it works

# You drag and drop a large file for uploading (or use file input, yawn)
# Using JavaScript FileAPI we send a simple fingerprint of the file to the server
#* filename, file size, modified date - the user is also taken into account, determined by the current session data
# The server looks for an existing matching file
#* If not found it creates a new one
#* Then it returns the file_id and the part of the file we are up to
# The JavaScript looks at the response then sends the next part of the file
# The server appends the part to the file then requests the next part
# and so on...

I've defined the part size to be a constant 1mb (1024 x 1024). Feel free to adjust this as you see fit.

Other features include:
* Appending more files while an upload is taking place
* Pausing and resuming uploads (to the nearest mb) - when blobs are supported
* Client side filtering of files that can be uploaded where desirable

h2. Using it with Rails 3.1

I've made the following assumptions
* You are validating users before letting them upload
** There are callbacks to obtain this information
* Once the upload has occured you will be performing post processing of some sort
** Creating a DB entry to manage the location of the file, as the most basic example

h3. Basic Usage

# Create an entry in your gem file for it: gem 'resolute', :git => 'git://github.com/stakach/Resumable-Uploads.git'
# Create an initializer for the configuration: config/initializers/uploads.rb (for example)
#* Enter config (outlined in the next section)
# Update your routes
# Run migrations
#* First need to copy over the migrations: rake railties:install:migrations
#* Then: rake db:migrate
# In the head section of your document include: <%= javascript_include_tag resumables.js %>
# Configure the client side jQuery as you wish (outlined below)

h3. Engine Config

In your initializer:

<pre>
<code>

	Resolute.current_user do
		#
		# This is run in the context of the controller
		#	Return a unique identifier that can be stringified
		#
		session[:user]
	end
	
	Resolute.upload_completed  do  |result|
		#
		#	Result is a hash with the following fields
		#		:user	(user identifier defined by current_user above)
		#		:filename (original, unmodified, filename as sent from client side)
		#		:filepath (relational path to the file)
		#		:params (any custom parameters from the client side)
		#		:resumable - the resumable db entry. Will be automatically destroyed on success, not on failure.
		#						This provides you the opportunity to destroy it if you like. Will be nil if it is a regular upload.
		#
		me = Model.new(result)
		me.save
		if me.new_record?
			#
			# If the uploaded file is not required delete it and destroy resumable here too
			#
			return me.errors	# Provide the client side with some information
		else
			FileUtils.mv(result[:filepath], me.storage_location)	# etc.. This should be in the model in after_create
			return true
		end
	end
	
	#
	# These are the defaults for the following two options:
	#
	Resolute.upload_folder = 'tmp/uploading'	# Folder is created if it doesn't exist
	
	#
	# Provides a way to prevent an upload as early as possible
	#	Return false or an array of errors if the file type is not supported (determined from filename)
	#
	Resolute.check_supported = Proc.new {|file_info| return true}	# Can also be defined as a block like above
		#
		# File_info hash contains the following - :user, :filename, :params (any custom parameters from the client side)
		#


</code>
</pre>


The engine also needs to have a base path defined in routes: config/routes.rb
Create an entry where ever you want, the client side defaults to /uploads

<pre>
<code>
	mount Resolute::Engine => "/uploads"
</code>
</pre>


h3. Client side JavaScript

Provides the hooks into your web application to provide upload hotspots (think gmail uploads) and feedback

<pre>
<code>
	
	$('#file_input, #drop_spot').resumable({
		//
		// Event callbacks (can be set here or bound at any point in time)
		//
		//onStart: return modified file list or undefined,			// Passed: (event, file list)
		//onAppendFiles: return modified file list or undefined,	// Passed: (event, file list)
		//onUploadStarted: returning false will skip the file,		// Passed: (event, name, number, total)
		//onUploadProgress:					// Passed: (event, progress, name, number, total)
		//onUploadFinish:					// Passed: (event, response, name, number, total)
		//onUploadError:					// Passed: (event, name, error, messages)
		//onFinish:							// Passed: (event, total, failures)
		
		//
		// Configuration options
		//
		baseURL: '/uploads',	// Default
		//additionalParameters: JS Object or function(file) {return {params: 'data'}},
		
		autostart: true,			// On change if using input box
		autoclear: true,			// Clears the file upload input box once complete
		disableInput: true,			// Prevents an input field being used while uploads are occuring
		retry_part_errors: false,	// Applies only to resumable uploads
		retry_limit: 3,				// Number of part retries before giving up
		halt_on_error: false		// Stop uploading further files?
	});

</code>
</pre>



h2. Credits

The client side code was refactored and inspired by: http://code.google.com/p/jquery-html5-upload/

